# Uncle Petros and Goldbach's Conjecture

Authors: Apostolos Doxiadis

Date read: 2023-05-01

Uncle Petros and Goldbach's Conjecture is a fascinating novel about a genius
mathematician who dedicates his life to solve one of the oldest and best-known
unsolved problems in mathematics, Goldbach's Conjecture: "Every even number
greater than 2 is the sum of two prime numbers."

The story centers around a family dynamic in which the narrator is the nephew of
Uncle Petros. Despite the enjoyable moments the nephew shares with his uncle,
Petros' brother, the narrator's father, consistently characterizes Petros as a
family failure. This sparks the narrator's curiosity, prompting him to delve into
the reason behind this animosity. He discovers that Petros was once a prodigious
mathematician, but he spent his entire life attempting to solve Goldbach's
Conjecture in an effort to impress a former lover and win back her affection.
From the perspective of Petros' family, this was a foolish display of pride,
dedicating himself to an unattainable objective and wasting his life.

During his youth, Uncle Petros encounters GÃ¶del's Theorem, which states that not
all true mathematical statements can be proven. This revelation provides Uncle
Petros with a justification to abandon his pursuit of Goldbach's Conjecture.
However, when the narrator discovers this fact, he attempts to convince Uncle
Petros to admit that he could have proved the conjecture. This effort backfires,
causing Uncle Petros to descend into madness.

The final scene of the story is particularly memorable, as Uncle Petros calls the
narrator in the middle of the night, claiming to have proven Goldbach's Conjecture.
Uncle Petros insists that the narrator must come immediately to see the proof,
as there is not enough time. He explains that the "2^100 girls," which have been
a constant presence in his dreams, have come to take him away.

Indeed, the book is a delightful read with a fast-paced and engaging narrative.
The author's skillful storytelling keeps the reader hooked and eager to discover
what happens next.

Rating: 5/5
